[6.2] The build script for building scripts (#46879)
joomla/joomla-cms: media_source/README.md

# CMS Media source

The folder contains source files of CMS client-side resources (Stylesheets, JavaScripts, Images and other assets) needed for extensions to work.

> Each folder is for specific extension with few exceptions like `vendor`, `system`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each folder is for a specific extension with a few exceptions like `vendor`, `system`.
```

## Building assets

> Before use the assets first it is needed to be built/compiled and placed under `media/` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using the assets they must first be built/compiled and placed under `media/` folder.
```

hard sentence to make correct in english - i hope it still means what you expect

Following command helps to build, they will call builder associated with each asset:

> - `npm run build -- -a` Build all assets. Will go through all resources and will build each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `npm run build -- -a` Build all assets. Will go through all resources and will build each asset.
```

- `npm run build -- -n <resource_name>,<resource_name>` Build only specific asset.

> Additionally, each builder may provide own task, that can be executed separately without running whole rebuild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, each builder may provide their own task, that can be executed separately without running the whole rebuild.
```

In default configuration the builder uses following tasks:
- `clear` remove all associated files from `media/`.
- `copy` copy static files to `media/`

> - `css` process Stylesheets files. Copy or compile in to CSS when needed (example for SCSS etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `css` process Stylesheets files. Copy or compile to CSS when needed (example for SCSS etc.).
```

> - `js` process JavaScript files. Copy or compile in to JS when needed (example for `.es6.js` and `.vue` etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `js` process JavaScript files. Copy or compile to JS when needed (example for `.es6.js` and `.vue` etc.).
```

- `gzip` prepare compressed version of css,js files.

To execute specific task use `-t` argument:
- `npm run build -- -a -t <task_name>,<task_name>` Will apply specified task to all asset builders.
- `npm run build -- -n <resource_name>,<resource_name> -t <task_name>,<task_name>` Will apply specified task to specified asset builders.

> Use watchers while develop the extension allows to automatically refresh the assets while editing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use watchers while developing an extension allows to automatically refresh the assets while editing.
```

> - `npm run watch -- -n <resource_name>` Will start watching on files changes for specific asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `npm run watch -- -n <resource_name>` Will start watching files changes for specific asset.
```

## Adding new assets

To add new resource follow next steps:
- Create folder under `media_source/` with name of future asset. Example for `com_example` it will be `media_source/com_example/`.
- Add Stylesheets, JavaScript and other needed files for the asset.

> - Add the resource name in to `build/build-modules-js/builders-registry.mjs` in to list of `builders` so CLI know it exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the resource name in to `build/build-modules-js/builders-registry.mjs` into the list of `builders` so CLI know it exists.
```

> - (Optionally) When need extra processing add custom builder in to root of the newly created folder `media_source/com_example/builder.mjs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (Optionally) When need extra processing add custom builder into the root of the newly created folder `media_source/com_example/builder.mjs`.
```

The builder should provide list of tasks which it is able to run and expose public methods for each task to do so.

**ATTENTION**: While coding the custom builder avoid writing in to folders outside the current asset scope. This could lead to unexpected collisions.

Example builder:

```javascript
export default class ExampleModuleBuilder
{
	tasksBuild = ['clear', 'copy', 'css', 'js'];
	tasksExtras = ['gzip'];

	constructor(name = '', basePath = '', targetPath = '', options = {}) {
		if (!name) {
			throw new Error(`Argument "name" is required for ModuleBuilder.`);
		}

		if (!basePath || !targetPath) {
			throw new Error(`Arguments "basePath" and "targetPath"  is required for "${name}" ModuleBuilder.`);
		}

		this.name = name;
		this.basePath = path.join(basePath, name);
		this.targetPath = path.join(targetPath, name);
		this.options = options;
	}

	getAllTasks() {
		return [ ...this.tasksBuild, ...this.tasksExtras ];
	}

	getBuildTasks() {
		return this.tasksBuild;
	}

	// The methods to execute each task
	async clear() {}
	async copy() {}
	async css() {}
	async js() {}
	async gzip() {}
}
```

The list of tasks is not strict, and depending on the builder needs.

> However, it is required the builder to implement `getBuildTasks()` so the main script know which tasks need to run while running the complete build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it is required the builder to implement `getBuildTasks()` so the main script knows which tasks need to run while running the complete build.
```

> Method `getAllTasks()` is optional, needed only when builder have the tasks that can be executed from CLI but which does not participate in the complete build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Method `getAllTasks()` is optional, needed only when builder have tasks that can be executed from CLI but which does not participate in the complete build.
```

> To simplify the codding it is possible to extend `DefaultModuleBuilder` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify the coding it is possible to extend `DefaultModuleBuilder` class.
```
